## 2.1.1 Networking Application Architecture

#### Client-Server 
* Clients do not directly contact each other
* Server has a fixed well known IP address
* **Data Center** are used to create virtual servers that can handle huge
  amount of traffic.

#### P2P (Peer to Peer)
* In P2P network, each nodes can talk to each other without a central server
* **Self-Scalability** is the most compelling features of P2P

## 2.1.2 Process Communicating

#### Client and Server Process
* The process that initializes the connection is **client**. The process awaits
  to be connected is the **server**.
* The web browser initializes contact with a Web Server process.
* In P2P network, a node can either be a client or a server.

#### Interface Between Process and Computer Network
* Processes send/receive through an interface called **socket**.
* Control developer has on the transportation layer
    1. Choice of transport protocol
    2. transport layer parameters (buffer size, segment size)

#### Addressing Process
* Identifying receiving process
    1. Address of the receiver
    2. A port number to verify the destination

## 2.1.3 Transport Services Available to Applications

#### Reliable Data Transfer
* If a protocol guarantees the reliable data delivery.

#### Throughput
* **Throughput** is the bits/sec of deliverying
* Transport layer can provide a service which allow application to request a guaranteed throughput.

#### Timing
* Transport layer can also provide timing guarantees.

#### Security
* Transport layer can also provide more security services 
    * Encryption/Decryption
    * Data Integrity
    * End-point authentication

## 2.1.4 Transport Services Provided by the Internet
First decision of creating an internet is to choose between **TCP** or **UDP**.

#### TCP Services
* includes a connection-oriented service and reliable data transfer services
    - **Connection Oriented Service**
      A connection (handshake) has to be established before clients and servers can 
      communicate. The connection is a **full-duplex** connection if two processes
      can send messages to each other the same time.

    - **Secure Socket Layer** (SSL) (not another protocol but an enhancement if TCP)
        - TCP enhanced with SSL also provides cirtical process to process security
          services.

    - Reliable Data Transfer Service
      Deliver all data sent without error and in the proper order

    - Congestion-control mechansim
      
#### UDP Services
* Connectionless
* Unreliable data transfer service
    - No guarantee of the delivery of the packet
* No congestion control

#### Services are not provided by Internet Transport Protocols
* Timing and throughput guarantees

## Application Layer Protocols
* Timing and throughput guarantees
